CASMPET-5608 : Update Cert_Renewal_for_Kubernetes_and_Bare_Metal_EtcD for kube-etcdbackup client cert (#1589)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/kubernetes/Cert_Renewal_for_Kubernetes_and_Bare_Metal_EtcD.md

# Kubernetes and Bare Metal EtcD Certificate Renewal

As part of the installation, Kubernetes generates certificates for the required subcomponents. This document will help walk through the process of renewing the certificates.

**IMPORTANT:**

- Depending on the version of Kubernetes, the command may or may not reside under the `alpha` category. Use `kubectl certs --help` and `kubectl alpha certs --help` to determine this.
  The overall command syntax should be the same and this is just whether or not the command structure will require `alpha` in it.
- The node referenced in this document as `ncn-m` is the master node selected to renew the certificates on.

> - This document is based off a base hardware configuration of three master nodes and three worker nodes. Utility storage nodes are not mentioned because they are not running Kubernetes. Please make sure to update any commands that run on multiple nodes accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This document is based off a base hardware configuration of three master nodes and three worker nodes. Utility storage nodes are not mentioned because they are not running Kubernetes. Make sure to update any commands that run on multiple nodes accordingly.
```

    front-proxy-ca          Sep 02, 2030 15:21 UTC   8y              no
    ```

### Backup Existing Certificates

1. Backup existing certificates on master nodes:

> 

Reviewer: If this note is made for the worker command, should one be here as well? I know that Kubernetes clusters can be configured with more than three master nodes -- not sure if we support that for CSM or not, though.

```suggestion

    **IMPORTANT:** The range of nodes below should reflect the size of the environment. This should run on every master node.

```

Author: We do not recommend running with more than 3 masters since that can cause Etcd latency. I will not include this change.

    ```bash
    ncn-m# pdsh -w ncn-m00[1-3] tar cvf /root/cert_backup.tar /etc/kubernetes/pki/ /var/lib/kubelet/pki/
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    ncn-m001: tar: Removing leading / from member names
    ncn-m001: /etc/kubernetes/pki/
    ncn-m001: /etc/kubernetes/pki/front-proxy-client.key
    ncn-m001: tar: Removing leading / from hard link targets
    ncn-m001: /etc/kubernetes/pki/apiserver-etcd-client.key
    ncn-m001: /etc/kubernetes/pki/sa.key

    [...]
    ```

1. Backup existing certificates on worker nodes:

    **IMPORTANT:** The range of nodes below should reflect the size of the environment. This should run on every worker node.

    ```bash
    ncn-m# pdsh -w ncn-w00[1-3] tar cvf /root/cert_backup.tar /var/lib/kubelet/pki/
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
    ncn-w003: tar: Removing leading / from member names
    ncn-w003: /var/lib/kubelet/pki/
    ncn-w003: /var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet.key
    ncn-w003: /var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet-client-2021-09-07-17-06-36.pem
    ncn-w003: /var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet.crt

    [...]
    ```

### Renew Certificates

Run the following steps on each master node.

> 1. Renew the Certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Renew the certificates.
```

    -rw------- 1 root root 1675 Sep 22 17:13 server.key
    ```

   Not all the certificate files were updated in this example.

>    **IMPORTANT:** Some certificates were not updated because they have a distant expiration time and did not need to be updated. ***This is expected.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **IMPORTANT:** Some certificates were not updated because they have a distant expiration time and did not need to be updated. **This is expected.**
```

   notAfter=Sep  4 17:01:38 2022 GMT
   ```

   **IMPORTANT:** Do **NOT** forget to verify certificates in `/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd`.

>    - As noted in the above output, all certificates including those for Etcd were updated. Please note `apiserver-etcd-client.crt` is a Kubernetes API certificate not an Etcd only certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - As noted in the above output, all certificates including those for Etcd were updated. Note that `apiserver-etcd-client.crt` is a Kubernetes API certificate, not an Etcd only certificate.
```

     Also, the `/var/lib/kubelet/pki/` certificates will be updated in the Kubernetes client section that follows.

1. Restart etcd.

>    Once the steps to renew the needed certs have been completed on all the master nodes, log into each master node one at a time and run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Once the steps to renew the needed certificates have been completed on all the master nodes, log into each master node one at a time and run the following:
```

      ```

      The following is returned if certificates have expired:

      ```text
      error: You must be logged in to the server (Unauthorized)
      ```

   1. Copy `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf` to `/root/.kube/config`.

      ```bash
      ncn-m# cp /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf /root/.kube/config
      ```

   1. Check the status of the nodes again.

      ```bash
      ncn-m# kubectl get nodes
      ```

      Example output:

      ```text
      NAME       STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION
      ncn-m001   Ready    master   370d   v1.18.6
      ncn-m002   Ready    master   370d   v1.18.6
      ncn-m003   Ready    master   370d   v1.18.6
      ncn-w001   Ready    <none>   370d   v1.18.6
      ncn-w002   Ready    <none>   370d   v1.18.6
      ncn-w003   Ready    <none>   370d   v1.18.6
      ```

1. Distribute the client certificate to the rest of the cluster.

   **NOTE:** There may be errors when copying files. The target may or may not exist depending on the version of Shasta.

   - **DO NOT** copy this to the master node where this work is being performed.
   - Copy `/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf` to all master and worker nodes.

   Client access:

>    **NOTE:** Update the following command with the appropriate amount of worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** Update the following command with the appropriate range of worker nodes.
```

   ```bash
   ncn-m# pdcp -w ncn-m00[2-3] -w ncn-w00[1-3] /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf /etc/kubernetes/
   ```

## Regenerate kubelet `.pem` Certificates

1. Backup certificates for `kubelet` on each master and worker node:

>    **IMPORTANT:** The following example will need to be adjusted to reflect the correct amount of master and worker nodes in the environment being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **IMPORTANT:** The following example will need to be adjusted to reflect the correct number of master and worker nodes in the environment being used.
```

   ```bash
   ncn-m# pdsh -w ncn-m00[1-3] -w ncn-w00[1-3] tar cvf \

>    /root/kubelet_certs.tar /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf /var/lib/kubelet/pki/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               /root/kubelet_certs.tar /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf /var/lib/kubelet/pki/
```

   ```

2. Log into the master node where the other certificates were updated.

>    1. Get your current `apiserver-advertise-address`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Get the current `apiserver-advertise-address`.
```

      ```bash
      ncn# kubectl config view|grep server

>       server: https://10.252.120.2:6442

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```

      Example output:

      ```text
      server: https://10.252.120.2:6442
```

      ```

   1. Generate a new `kubelet.conf` file in the `/root/` directory with the IP address from the previous command.

>       **NOTE:** The `apiserver-advertise-address` may vary, so make sure you are not copy and pasting without verifying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      **NOTE:** The `apiserver-advertise-address` may vary, so do not copy and paste without verifying.
```

      ```bash
      ncn-m# for node in $(kubectl get nodes -o json|jq -r '.items[].metadata.name'); do kubeadm alpha kubeconfig user --org system:nodes \
                               --client-name system:node:$node --apiserver-advertise-address 10.252.120.2 --apiserver-bind-port 6442 > /root/$node.kubelet.conf; done
      ```

      There should be a new `kubelet.conf` file per node running Kubernetes.

3. Copy each file to the corresponding node shown in the filename.

>    **NOTE:** Please update the below command with the appropriate amount of master and worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** Update the below command with the appropriate number of master and worker nodes.
```

   ```bash
   ncn-m# for node in ncn-m00{1..3} ncn-w00{1..3}; do scp /root/$node.kubelet.conf $node:/etc/kubernetes/; done
   ```

4. Log into each node one at a time and run the following commands:

   ```bash

>    systemctl stop kubelet.service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# systemctl stop kubelet.service &&
```

>    rm /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        rm -v /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf /var/lib/kubelet/pki/* &&
```

>    rm /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    cp /etc/kubernetes/`<node>`.kubelet.conf /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cp -v /etc/kubernetes/$(hostname -s).kubelet.conf /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf &&
```

>    systemctl start kubelet.service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        systemctl start kubelet.service &&
```

>    kubeadm init phase kubelet-finalize all --cert-dir /var/lib/kubelet/pki/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        kubeadm init phase kubelet-finalize all --cert-dir /var/lib/kubelet/pki/ && echo OK
```

   ```

5. Check the expiration of the `kubectl` certificate files. See [File Locations](#file-locations) for the list of files.

>    ***This task is for each master and worker node. The example checks each kubelet certificate in [File Locations](#file-locations).***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **This task is for each master and worker node. The example checks each `kubelet` certificate in [File Locations](#file-locations).**
```

   ```bash

>    for i in $(ls /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*.crt;ls /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*.pem);do echo ${i}; openssl x509 -enddate -noout -in ${i};done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn# for i in $(ls /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*.crt;ls /var/lib/kubelet/pki/*.pem);do echo ${i}; openssl x509 -enddate -noout -in ${i};done
```
